applications: nrf_desktop: Document SUIT support (#15851)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dfu_mcumgr.rst

   :depth: 2

The Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module is responsible for performing a Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) over Simple Management Protocol (SMP).

> Module is supporting usage of either mcuboot bootloader or SUIT tool for preforming DFU.

Reviewer: 1. MCUboot*
2.  I do not recall seeing SUIT being called "tool" in other docs. IMO it will be better to just leave it named "SUIT".

Reviewer: Also this is first mention in this doc, consider explaining what the SUIT is: `Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT)`

> Module is supporting usage of either MCUboot bootloader or Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) for preforming DFU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module supports both MCUboot bootloader and SUIT for performing DFU.
```

You cannot use this module with the :ref:`caf_ble_smp`.
In other words, you cannot simultaneously enable the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` Kconfig option.

> You have to choose backend for the DFU process by enabling one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have to choose the backend for the DFU process by enabling one of the following options:
```

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_MCUBOOT` - This option depends on the MCUboot bootloader support for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`mcuboot` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT` - This option depends on the SUIT support for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. note::
    B0 bootloader is not integrated with MCUmgr.

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr_mcuboot:

MCUmgr configuration using MCUboot backend
==========================================

The MCUboot backend configuration selects the following options:

* MCUmgr groups:

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables the MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables the MCUmgr image management handlers that are required for the DFU process.
```

    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_MUTEX`

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS management handlers that are required for the DFU process.
```

    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_STREAM_FLASH`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_BOOTUTIL_LIB`

> To use the module with this backend, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 3: Double check if we should use `:kconfig:option:` syntax for Sysbuild options

Author: we are still waiting for tech writers to discuss it. Lets leave it for their review

Reviewer 2: For now, we need to just have them between double backticks.

> To use the module with this backend, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the module with this backend, you must also enable the ``SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT`` Kconfig option.
```

By default, the MCUmgr DFU module confirms the image using the :c:func:`boot_write_img_confirmed` function during the system boot.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` option is enabled, the MCUmgr DFU module assumes that the bootloader simply boots the image with a higher version and does not confirm the newly updated image after a successful boot.

> Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode without revert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled, if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode without revert.
```

You cannot use this module with the :ref:`caf_ble_smp`.
In other words, you cannot simultaneously enable the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` Kconfig option.

> You have to choose backend for the DFU process by enabling one of the following options:

Reviewer 3: You need to add an empty line before the first bullet point

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_MCUBOOT` - This option depends on the MCUboot bootloader support for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`mcuboot` in the Zephyr documentation.

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_BACKEND_SUIT` - This option depends on the SUIT tool support for the DFU process.

Reviewer: As in other comment: "I do not recall seeing SUIT being called "tool" in other docs. IMO it will be better to just leave it named "SUIT"."

    For details, see :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. note::

>     Currently b0 backend is not supported.

Reviewer: I think that it is self explanatory looking at the options above and not needed here.
Also in this form IMO it kinda promises that it will be supported one day.

Author: @MarekPieta  asked me to add it here.

Reviewer: if you both will insist on leaving it here then i would remove the "currently" part of this sentence and leave just: "B0 bootloader backend is not supported".

Reviewer 3: Maybe: `B0 bootloader is not integrated with MCUmgr` (to avoid confusing it with lack of support in the application module)?

Reviewer: sure, sounds fine

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr_mcuboot:

MCUmgr configuration using MCUboot backend
==========================================

> The MCUboot backend configuration requires the following options:

Reviewer 3: `requires` -> `selects`

* MCUmgr groups:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables the MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_MUTEX`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_STREAM_FLASH`

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_BOOTUTIL_LIB`

Reviewer 3: These 3 should not belong under `MCUmgr groups`, right?

> To use the module with this backend, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 3: Now you need to build with MCUboot bootloeder in Sysbuild. Please update

By default, the MCUmgr DFU module confirms the image using the :c:func:`boot_write_img_confirmed` function during the system boot.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` option is enabled, the MCUmgr DFU module assumes that the bootloader simply boots the image with a higher version and does not confirm the newly updated image after a successful boot.

> Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode.

Reviewer 3: `direct-xip mode without revert.` (since revert support was added, I would suggest to be more precise here)

The option is enabled by default if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_BOOTLOADER_MODE_DIRECT_XIP` is enabled.

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr_suit:

MCUmgr configuration using SUIT backend
=======================================

The SUIT backend configuration requires the following options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MGMT_SUITFU` - This option enables the SUIT Firmware Update Management that implements MCUmgr image management handlers required for the DFU process.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MGMT_SUITFU_GRP_SUIT`

Reviewer 3: btw. I started to wonder if we can rely only on `CONFIG_MGMT_SUITFU_GRP_IMG` here? What are the `SUIT` commands used for in our use-case?

Reviewer 3: How is SUIT envelope image upload handled on mobile app's side now?

Author: Don't understand you.

    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_STREAM_FLASH`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_BOOTUTIL_LIB`

To use the module with this backend, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.

By default, the MCUmgr DFU module confirms the image using the :c:func:`boot_write_img_confirmed` function during the system boot.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` option is enabled, the MCUmgr DFU module assumes that the bootloader simply boots the image with a higher version and does not confirm the newly updated image after a successful boot.
Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode without revert.
The option is enabled by default if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_BOOTLOADER_MODE_DIRECT_XIP` is enabled.

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr_suit:

MCUmgr configuration using SUIT backend
=======================================

> The SUIT backend configuration requires the following options:

Reviewer 3: `requires` -> `selects`

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MGMT_SUITFU` - This option enables the SUIT Firmware Update Management that implements MCUmgr image management handlers required for the DFU process.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MGMT_SUITFU_GRP_SUIT` - This option is needed to upload information about all manifests present on the device.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SSF_SUIT_SERVICE_ENABLED`

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't we move it under `SUIT Firmware Update Management dependencies`? Or maybe we can simply merge both sections together?
